---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Back To My Roots
date: 2021-01-19
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---


After a long hiatus and touching upon many different languages, it has led me back to where it had all started. I started my programming journey back in Junior year of high school. At the time I decided to take a web design course centered around HTML/CSS/Javascript just to fill up my schedule, I did not know what I was getting myself into, but who knew from then on I would pursue a future in the IT field. 

Coming Back
After coming back and completing ES6, I found out despite taking 2 years of web design classes, I only knew so little about JavaScript. Some new things that I learned after taking the code camp was how I could destructure objects and functions, and also use arrow notations to create functions as opposed to the normal way. One thing that I missed about JavaScript was how lenient it was, kind of like python, but even more lenient. Javascript does not require me to define my variables as an Int or String which allows me to completely skip the tedious task of parsing and returning the right type.

My Thoughts
In my opinion, JavaScript is a great language, on par with the likes of python and java. It is also one of the easiest languages to learn because of how lenient it is. It is one of the easiest languages because the way JavaScript functions work. Javascript functions can take anything into it, run it through the code, and can output whatever you want. This might be bad practice and is looked down upon in the IT community, but in many cases, this is extremely helpful. 

Athletic software engineering is such a difficult way to teach a class. It puts out so much work to be done and work to be graded, it's a workout for both the students and the teachers! I like this style of teaching because of how much practice I am getting, hopefully later on through the course I can still say the same. The practice WOD’s are a great way to get practice done. It requires you to be able to solve complex problems within 16 minutes. This is super stressful but extremely rewarding. 

Conclusion
JavaScript is an extremely useful language as it can be found in games and every website ever. I am very excited to get back to learning JavaScript again as I had many pleasant experiences with it. Hopefully one day, after mastering JavaScript, I will be able to apply what I learnt in this course to my future job.
